As you may remember, three days ago, we saw all about opening and manipulating files, and we managed
to do so in part by importing the OSS module.
This module has even more to offer, and since we're going to need it for today's project, let's explore
a bit more of its tools along with those of the shuttle.
Another great module you should know.
Let's add complexity to what we've already learned about opening files.
What if we want to open all the files that are in a certain directory?
What would we have to do if we wanted to move files from one directory to another?
OS and shuttle have all the answers to these and other questions.
Run over to py charm to get to know them.
Let's start by remembering some important points.
If I want to know the current working directory, I can import OS first and print whatever results from
OS.
Get CW dx on the screen.
Remember the name of the method stands for Get Current Working Dictionary, so let's execute it and
so that it returns my current working dictionary which is my desktop.
Python Day nine.
Notice the use of back slashes, which means I'm working with Windows Operating System.
Now I know where I am.
And what if I want to create a file here?
Well, I'll do it by creating a variable named file which will contain the open method which will open
the file course text.
Since this file doesn't exist, the method will create it, and after adding a comma, I'll make it.
So the open method is w so that I can write on it.
Then we'll type, file, write, and we'll just type test text inside.
Then just to be careful, we'll type the file dot close so as to close it.
If we execute this, we won't see anything on the screen.
But if we go to our folder desktop Python Day nine, we'll see that our file exists.
If I click on it, it reads test text, meaning I was able to create it and if I want to see it directly
from python I can print os list dear and if I execute it it will show me all these files in the list.
One of them being cost text, which is the file I just created.
If I want to open all those files, I can do it using a loop because I have them in a list.
We'll see how we can do that in a minute.
Now we'll learn how to move files.
To do so, we'll import the shutting method, which contains a method which we can see if we create
a shuttle object.
That method is known as MOVE.
So what are we going to move?
Well, we'll move course.
Text the file I just created, which is located in the same path I'm working with in Python.
We'll move that file to the path we want.
So we'll located in desktop instead of folder de nine.
To do so, we'll create a path that reads C colon double backslash users double backslash.
Once again win ten.
This is my home path.
You'll use yours and this will be different according to each computer.
And in my case, all this is followed by desktop.
So if I execute this, I won't see anything on the screen.
And if I open this, the course text file won't be there anymore.
But if I go to my desktop, I'll find my file has been relocated.
We can also delete files and there are three ways to do it.
Two of them are contained in the OS module.
If we type dot, we'll get some options.
One of them is unlink, which deletes a file located in a path that we specify.
Then there's another method named MDR, which stands for Remove Directory.
This method deletes an empty folder located in a path that we specify.
So far, so good.
There's a third method which is not contained in OS but in shuttle.
This method is known as RMD Tree, which stands for Removed Tree.
This means it deletes everything inside a path that we specify.
So be very, very careful with this one.
I actually don't recommend it.
I'm mentioning it just so you know, of its existence.
This method deletes a specified folder along with its contents without checking or asking.
And what's more, it's irreversible.
Deleted files are not sent to the recycle bin.
They're completely deleted.
They disappear, and you cannot recover them unless you're a hacker.
Most of us can't do that.
I recommend you use some other options contained in a module which will have to import because it is
not included in Python.
So go to command line to install it and it is a module named send to trash.
You can install it using pip installed followed by the name which is send to as in the number and trash.
Since I already installed it, the software tells me it's a requirement.
Already satisfied.
You'll wait until it's installed.
Now let's go back to py charm and use import to get send to trash.
Here we have it.
Now we can type.
Send to trash.
Yes, type it twice.
And then we choose which file we want to delete.
Since I don't have it in this folder, I'll move it to day nine and now that I have it, I can delete
something.
Let's delete coarse text, let's execute it and go back to the folder.
Day nine.
The file has disappeared.
If I go to recycle bin, I'll find my file.
Therefore, I'm still able to recover and move it to my folder so as to use it later.
This is quite a safer method to delete files.
Now let me show you a method named Walk, which traverses all the directories, folders, subfolders
and files and it finds on its way after we've specified a path.
Walk is an OS method, by the way.
So let's print it out on the screen so as to see what happens, what will walk require it will require
a path.
So I'll specify a path where I've prepared a group of folders.
So look at this.
I have this top folder in my desktop.
Top folder contains two folders, intermediate folder one and intermediate folder two, and it also
contains a file named file text which doesn't contain anything because it's not necessary.
For this example, intermediate folder one contains two files bottom file one and two, and intermediate
file two doesn't contain anything.
This is the little tree I've created as an illustration.
So it we'll make walk, traverse top folder and show us everything that's stored inside.
I'll paste the path I need and I already copied it to the clipboard and I'll execute this.
It shows me there's a generator object which is curious and it is located here.
So we're not saying what it contains because this is a generator that provides us with information as
we ask for it.
As a result, it doesn't take up any memory space.
Imagine if we had 1000 folders and files inside top folder.
This generator would prevent us from taking up memory space until we ask for that data.
And how can we ask for them?
We can easily do that using an iterator.
We'll paste the path inside a variable named path.
Let's delete this because we don't need need it anymore.
And let's create an iterator.
Let's go back to what I said a few minutes ago, which is very important.
Walk contains the path it is located in and it also contains the subfolders and files that are located
in that path.
This means that work will create tuples with three types of information path, subfolders and files,
so it will store that information which will be iterated over in three variables.
So for each folder subfolder and file found in OS dot walk in path, which is the one we stored in the
variable.
Okay.
First of all, walk will print each of these elements in an orderly manner.
Let's create a string literal that says in folder colon and here we open a call to path.
Then we'll print another string.
Let's roll that says subfolders are colon and we'll go to the next line and create a loop that iterates
over all the subfolders it finds in order to display them.
For each sub that is subfolder and subfolder, we'll make this loop print an indented string literal
so as to leave some space and organize it better.
Let's use indentation backslash t.
Now let's add curly brackets so that sub is printed as well.
That is each subfolder it finds.
Then this loop will also print the files it finds inside those subfolders.
So we'll create another string that reads files are colon.
And let's go down here to start a loop that iterates over the files.
So you may be very confused after you see the result and analyze the code, you'll understand.
So for each phi that is file in file, this loop will print an indented string literal containing phi
in curly brackets.
That is each file it finds.
Once we've finished this, we'll print a line break so as to leave some space between the strings.
So should we print this and see what happens?
Isn't it nice and tidy in this folder, which would be top folder?
The loop found intermediate folder one, intermediate folder two and the files which are these ones?
Then we have the next element of the first loop, the second folder which is o top folder.
I see.
It shouldn't be path here.
I'm sorry, it should be folder.
Okay.
The first loop will now iterate over each folder.
Let's execute it again.
So the first folder was top folder and the second folder was intermediate folder one where the loop
didn't find any subfolder but only these two files.
Lastly, the loop didn't find anything inside intermediate folder two there are no subfolders or files.
This loop iterated over this folder tree and was able to return all this information.
We can even use this in order to find files or folders that meet a specific condition.
For example, instead of printing file when looking for it, we can create an if that checks if file
starts with 2015.
So if the loop finds a file that meets this condition, it will print it using indentation as well.
So let's modify one of the files.
Let's make it start with 2015 so as to get a valid output.
Let's execute it and look at this.
Top folder is showing us folders, but no files.
So why is that?
Because there aren't files starting with 2015.
It did find one file in intermediate folder, just the one that makes the condition.
The other one is not displayed.
So this is a way to look for elements that satisfy some conditions inside a folder tree.
So thanks for being with me here and I'm already heading over to the next lesson.